
# Crossy Road Final Project

## Useful Links
* Unreal engine 4 C++ documentation is [here](https://docs.unrealengine.com/en-us/Programming/Introduction)
* [Asset Naming Convention](https://wiki.unrealengine.com/Assets_Naming_Convention)

# Importing Assets
All assets should be imported into the project in the `proj/Content/Assets/Voxel` directory.

## How To import
Go to the directory in UE4 editor  and click `import`. Open the `.obj` file from `project-06-crossy-road-resources` repo and click import. **None of the settings need to be changed**.

**Note** that when you drag the asset into the world, it will not be in the correct orientation (it won't be upright) and really tiny LOL.

## To fix the rotation and scale:
1. Open the static mesh asset editor
2. In ```details``` search for `transform`. Under `import rotation` in the`x-axis`, change it to `90` degrees.
3. Under `import uniform scale`, change it to your desired scale. (Usually 5.0 and up is perfect).

UE4 will generate 3 files: `static mesh`, `texture`, and `material`.

### Alternative
When first importing an asset, go to `import transform settings` and make the same changes as above. Now everytime you import an asset from a Voxel `.obj` file, it should automatically import in the right rotation and scale.

## When assets import with the wrong colors
Sometimes assets will import with the wrong colors, this is because when you first import a `.obj` file, UE4 will set the material for the asset you just imported with the previous one. 

### How to fix: 
* import the `.png` file for the asset if a `texture` file was not automatically generated by UE4. 
* Rename the new texture with the prefix `T_`. 
* Right-click on the texture and `create a material`. Rename it with the prefix `M_`.
* If the correct material isn't already set, open the `static mesh` file for the asset and change it's material.

**All textures and materials should be placed in the correct folder**

## Black assets after building project
Go into the `static mesh` file for the asset and in `details`, search for `light map resolution`. Change that value to `512` and make sure the `Map Coordinate Index` is set to `1`. This will fix the lighting issue.

# Gameplay Information

We're supposed to try and follow this gameplay plan, as discussed in class

## Gameplay - Player Characters

We're supposed to have all these players available to play in the game (!). They all move and behave the same way, but simply use a different skin. Therefore we can easily subclass BP_Player and just worry about finding animations

We also don't need any sort of "Player Selection Menu", and are allowed to randomly choose a character to use.

Each player makes a different jumping sound though.

* Chicken
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Cluck
* Duck
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Quack
* Sheep
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Baaaaaaa
* Unicorn
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Neigh
* Frog
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Ribbit
* Steer
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Mooo
* Cat
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Meow
* Robot
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> Boing
* Wizard
	* Sounds:
		* Jump -> ???

## Gameplay - NPC Characters

### NPC - Train

* Whooshing Sound
* Sound: Train crossing bell, just before spawn

### NPC - Eagle

* Swooping down sound
* Doesn't try to kill you during the actual game; Only swoops down to kill you when you've gone off the bottom of screen

## Gameplay - Deaths

* Water -> Particle System; Water droplets bubble up around where the player just disappeared / drowned

* Vehicle Deaths

* Car
	* If the player walks into a car -> Flattened on the same side as the vehicle

	* If the player is ran over by a car -> Flattened to a splat on the highway

* Truck -> Same as car

* Oil Truck -> Player and vehicle disappear and are replaced by a multicolored particle explosion animation. The explosion starts out as white, then the emitter changes the emission color at a set interval.

* Train -> Particle splatter just like with the oil Truck, but the train doesn't disappear

* Eagle -> When the player goes off the bottom of the screen, the camera will re-center on the player and stop scrolling. The player will then lose the ability to move, the eagle will wait for the player's jump to finish (if any), then the eagle will swoop in and grab the player; Taking him off to death.



